feat(strm-1339): Data Subjects API added (#38)
strmprivacy/docs: docs/concepts/data-subjects.md

---
title: Data Subjects and its API
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

[ds]: https://gdpr-info.eu/art-4-gdpr/

# Data Subjects

A `data-subject` is a GDPR term that defines a natural person.

> Personal data shall mean any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person
> (‘data subject’). An identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly,
> in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an
> online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental,
> economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person.

> In the scope of STRM Privacy, a data-subject is a unique identifier within the scope of an organization that directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the perspective of STRM Privacy, a data-subject is a unique identifier within the scope of an organization that directly
```

(or indirectly) links to such a person, for example:

* a customer id

> * a 'Burger Service Number' (Dutch SSN)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a 'Burger Service Number' (Dutch Social Security Number)
```

* a car license plate (links indirectly to a person)

# Data Subjects API

> This API allows us to find all encryption keys generated by STRM Privacy _pipelines_ (stream or batch) that were used to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API enables your organization to find all encryption keys generated by STRM Privacy _pipelines_ (stream or batch) that were used to
```

> encrypt Personally Identifiable Data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
encrypt Personally Identifiable Information.
```

> The following requirements exist in order for this service to do its work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following requirements exist in order for this service to do its work:
```

> 1. data points must have an attribute that is equal to the data-subject. This would mean that something liek `customer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. data points must have an attribute that is equal to the data-subject. This would mean that something like `customer
```

   ID` would have to exist in your data

> 2. the data-contract that is applicable to your data pipeline (stream or batch) must have a `dataSubjectField` attribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. the data contract that is applicable to your data pipeline (stream or batch) must have a `dataSubjectField` attribute
```

>    that defines _which attribute_ contains the data subject. This field is _optional_; when absent, the Data Subjects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   that defines _which data field_ contains the data subject. This field is _optional_; when absent, the Data Subjects
```

   API will not be involved in the pipeline.

With both requirements in place every new encryption key that is created while processing a pipeline of data points will

> have its  _key link_ stored in the Data Subjects database, together with its validity period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have its  _key link_ stored by the Data Subjects API, together with its validity period.
```

> The Data Subjects API has some commands in the cli:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Data Subjects API can be accessed from the CLI with the following commands:
```
